# Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.17

Release date: September 30 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fix bug with nginx and phmyadmin not loading Fix #2166 Search function broken Update Quick installers to the last version

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.16

Release date: September 30 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fix bug with .json not loading on Apache2 due to rule in /etc/apache2/conf.d/phpmyadmin.conf

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.15

Release date: September 29 2021

### Features

- Add templates Chevereto #2153 @ManualRechkle

### Bugfixes

- Fix bug in v-add-sys-ip with netplan active
- Limit access to files/folders that are not required on default /phpmyadmin (*.json, templates, locale, vendor) #2143
- Update translations
- Fix issue with Exim 4.94 and Autoreply #2151
- Fix multiple UI bugs #2415
- Fix link broken link to Documentation #2142
- Improve detection for MariaDB #2141 thanks @gejobj

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.14

Release date: September 17 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fixed an issue with edit package
- Fixed an issue with v-update-letsencrypt and v-restart-service
- Fixed an issue with v-add-sys-ip and Ubuntu with no netplan enabled
- Fixed broken UPGRADE_MESSAGE variable not showing up in email
- Include / expand the config backup system during update

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.13

Release date: September 15 2021

### Features

- Introduce UPGRADE_MESSAGE variable to support custom messages in e-mail upgrade notification.

### Bugfixes

- Improve the hostname check to prevent invalid hostnames or the use of an ip address (RFC1178).
- Prevent CSRF from other domains / websites
- Fix #2096 Hostname SSL got overwritten by mail.hostname.com certificate
- Add small wait for /usr/bin/iptables-restore Forum + Fixed v-add-firewall / v-delete-firewall function (#2112) @myrevery
- Fix bug in v-change-sys-api. When using v-change-sys-api remove and then v-change-sys-api enable + custom release branch the resetting of api failed + no "error" output was produced
- Improve error reporting PMA Single sign on function function
- Fixed an issue in v-change-web-domain-name where web server where not able to start because old config files where not properly deleted #2104
- Fixed potential XSS vulnerability in /list/keys/ @wtwwer Disclosure
- Removed /edit/file as it has been replaced by Filegator and part of the old Vesta Filemanager
- Fixed potential External control / path vulnerability in /add/package @wtwwer Disclosure
- Add extra checks to prevent type juggling @vikychoi Disclosure
- Improved and updated some missing translation strings @myrevery
- Sync translations with Github

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.12

Release date: August 26 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fix #2087 Exim 4.94 Did not send any email to remote servers.
- Fixed #2082 v-delete-web-php creates always new config file
- Allow custom mail domains with own certificates #2061 @myrevery
- Fixed Replace tabulation with u0009 in v-list-dns-records #2089 @codibit
- Add /home/user/.composer in open_basedir #2088 @anvme

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.11

Release date: August 24 2021

### Features

- Added support for Debian 11 (Bullseye) #1611
- Added support for openssl in hestia-php
- Use hestia-php for installing dependencies to solve issue user configurations (hestia-php 7.4.22 required)
- Replace old firewall system with systemd service / startup script #2064 @myrevery
- Add Quick installers for GravCMS, Docuwiki and Mediawiki (#2002) @PsychotherapistSam

### Bugfixes

- Improve handling upgrade of Roundcube #1917
- Fix an issue with sorting the update scripts when version goes higher then 1.x.10
- Allow the use of multiple CAA records for domain. #2073
- Add missing group (www-data) to migrate_phpmyadmin script #2077 @bet0x
- Fix an issue where news@domain.com get forwarded to /var/spool/news
- Synced up translations with HestiaCP (IT, PL, RU, SK and ZN-CN updated)

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.10

Release date: August 12 2021

### Features

- Added v-delete-firewall-ban ip all #2031
- Include config tests for nginx/apache2 templates

### Bugfixes

- Fixed UI issues after upgrade jQuery + jQuery UI to last version (#2021 and #2032) + forum
- Fixed security issues in caching templates of Nginx when used as Reverse Proxy
- Fixed an issue with deleting multiple mail accounts (#2047)
- Fixed an issue with phpmailer + non latin characters (#2050) thanks @Faymir

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.9

Release date: Juli 27 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fixed bug in /etc/dovecot/conf.d/10-ssl.conf for new installs
- Fixed bug with notifications
- Fixed translation string @myrevery

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.8

Release date: Juli 27 2021

### Features

- Add support for automated testing for HestiaCP code with @drone
- Add support for SMTP server for internal email #1988 @Myself5 / #1165

### Bugfixes

- Updated jQuery and jQuery UI to the latest version due to a vulnerability in jQuery. @dependabot
- Resolve issue with double ENFORCE_SUBDOMAIN_OWNERSHIP keys in hestia.conf
- Resolve issue with create new user during install in some cases #2000
- Fixed an issue with Quick Install apps named Test123 (@PsychotherapistSam)
- Fix an issue with dovecot 2.3 ssl config (#1432)
- Load $HESTIA path during upgrade script (#1698)
- Remove TLS 1.1 from Proftpd config (#950)
- Don't remove postfix when Exim is not installed (#1995)
- Fix a bug in no-php Nginx FPM template (##2007)
- Update German translations
- Fixed a few minor error in Mail DMS records (#2005)

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.7

Release date: Juli 15 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fixed #1984 phppgadmin not working on apache2 systems
- Fixed #1985 Restart service not working

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.6

Release date: Juli 14 2021

### Features

- Add support for custom install hooks #1757
- Add template for CraftCMS #1973 @anvme
- Upgrade Filegator to 7.6.0

### Bugfixes

- Fix #1961 Renewal Apache2 only SSL certificate fails
- Fixed #1956 to prevent reset of defined webmail client.
- Explicitly disable cron reports #1978
- Fixed an issue where in rare cases certificate failed to install @dpeca and @myvesta
- Fixed an issue where composer failed to install when .composer folder is missing
- Fix #1980 Lets Encrypt Auto Renewal Reverts Webmail Client back to Roundcube

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.5

Release date: June 30 2021

### Bugfixes

- Revert #1943 and rework it to fix possible errors occuring on v-rebuild-cron-jobs.
- Fixed #1956 to prevent reset of defined webmail client.

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.4

Release date: June 30 2021

### Features

- Add Nginx user_agent separation to desktop/mobile (e.g. for fastcgi cache)
- Run phpmyadmin folder under www-data user instead of "user" improving security. (@bet0x)
- Added new template for mod php users to access phpmyadmin

### Bugfixes

- Add template for when webmail is disabled allowing to generate SSL.
- Fix PHP bug in /list/log/
- Fix issue with time in /list/services as it was showing as 50 minute1 instead of minutes
- Add missing back buttons + fix behaviour of back buttons on login page.
- Set "default" when WEB_TEMPLATE and PROXY_TEMPLATE is missing in user.conf
- Add BACKEND_TEMPLATE to default package
- Fix possible error occur for v-rebuild-cron-jobs #1943 (thanks @clarkchentw)
- Restrict access File manager when SSH is enabled for the user (@bet0x)
- Check for DNS domains when running v-change-sys-ip-nat (@clarkchentw)
- Fix logical error in installer (@clarkchentw)


## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.3

Release date: June 17 2021

### Features

- Include DMARC record in DNS record list #1836
- Enabled phpMyAdmin Single Sign On support #1460
- Add command to add / delete from API_ALLOWED_IP list (#1904)

### Bugfixes

- Improve the calculated disk size of a new backup estimated by excluding the exclude folders, mail accounts and database in backups (#1616) @Myself5
- Improve v-update-firewall / v-stop-firewall to make it self healing (#1892) @myrevery
- Update phpMyAdmin version to 1.5.1 (See https://www.phpmyadmin.net/news/2021/6/4/phpmyadmin-511-released/)
- Fixed a bug after rebuilding mail with Exim4 and suspended domains (#1886)
- Fixed "Allowed IP addresses for API" field with strange behaviour #1866
- Fixed an issue where the "Saved confirmation" was not set due to a redirect #1879
- Increased minimal memory requirements for ClamD / ClamAV. #1840
- Restore of backup did not rebuild the "Forced SSL" and "HSTS" config on new account #1862
- Keep changes made by /install/upgrade/manual/install_awstats_geopip.sh on update HestiaCP (via Discord)
- Refactor/improve PHP and HTML code @s0t (#1860)
- Fixed XSS vulnerability in login page and a few other locations @briansemrau / @numanturle
- Delete old session after session_regenerate_id() @briansemrau
- Improve error message when domain all ready exists on different account.
- Fixed an issue where phpmyadmin did not update when Postgresql was - available.
- Webmail clients set to rainloop where not able to create a SSL certificate via LE #1913
- Fixed an issue where plugin-hestia-change-pasword did not change the port on v-change-sys-port (Rainloop) #1895
- Fixed an issue where HELO message was not set / error was created on NAT IP

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.2

Release date: June 2 2021

::: tip
During the 1.4.1 / 1.4.0 release we have introduced a bug for Ubuntu 20.04 and 18.04 users with multiple network ports on the server. This release will solve the problems caused by this bug! If you are unable to download the Hestia packages via apt. Run the following command via CLI or SSH as root
:::

```bash
iptables -A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
```

Then run the update via

```bash
apt update && apt upgrade
```

### Bugfixes

- Fix issue wit startup script for iptables / network (#1849) (@myrevery)
- Fix problem with accidentally replacing nginx.conf during upgrade nginx (#1878 / @myrevery)
- Fix issue with installing Ubuntu 18.04
- Fix issue with login into file manger as admin user
- Added proxy_extentions back to support older custom templates
- Added the possibility to skip the forced reboot when interactive is set to no
- Fixed an issue with modx template
- Updated translations (Croatian, Czech and Italian)
- Fixed an issue where users where not able to save / update web domains when POLICY_USER_EDIT_WEB_TEMPLATES is enabled (#1872)
- Fixed an issue where admin users where not able to add new ssh key for users (#1870)
- Fixed an issue where domain.com was not affected as a valid domain (#1874)
- Fixed an issue where "development" icon was not removed on update to release (#1835)

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.1

Release date: May 26 2021

### Bugfixes

- Fixed bug with 2FA enabled logins

## Release notes for HestiaCP v1.4.0

Release date: May 26 2021

::: warning
Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial) is no longer supported as it has reached EOL (end-of-life) status.
:::

::: warning
Apache in "standalone" mode is no longer actively supported and has been removed from installer options. Nginx (Proxy) + - Apache2 will remain supported.
:::

::: warning
Custom "quick installer apps" will not work anymore due to changes in how we handle quick installer apps. Minimal changes to the Quick installer apps are required! Please check https://github.com/hestiacp/hestia-quick-install for how to migrate!
:::

::: warning
Manual upgrade scripts are available to update Roundcube, Rainloop and PHPmyadmin to the last version they can be found in `/usr/local/hestia/install/upgrade/manual/`
:::

### Features

- Introduced support for NGINX FastCGI cache.
- Introduced support for SMTP Relay / smarthosts (server-wide or per-domain).
- Introduced the ability to choose which webmail client to use per-domain (Roundcube or Rainloop).
- Added support for Rainloop (Run v-add-sys-rainloop to install it)
- Added B2 Backup Support for Remote Backup Location - thanks @rez0n!
- Added template support for osTicket - thanks @madito!
- Packages for phpMyAdmin, Roundcube, and Rainloop will be pulled directly from their upstream source instead of APT for new installations.
- Added DNS records view to mail domains which provides DKIM, SPF, and other entries to use with an external provider.
- Added an upgrade script to provide in-place upgrades to php7.4 (or any other version).
- Added Drupal and Nextcloud quick installer support (Removed placeholder Joomla)
- Added a new optional theme "Vestia"
- Added a switch to disable the API and also limit the api by default to 127.0.0.1 only. For current installs added the option "allow-all" on default
- After first reboot of Hestia will try do 1 attempt to request / generate a valid Lets encrypt certificate
- Introduced multiple new security policies via WebUI.
- Allow users to edit Web / Proxy / DNS / Backend templates
- Allow users to edit account details
- Allow suspended users to login with "read-only" access
- Allow users view / delete user history
- Enforce sub domain ownership
- Limit access to admin account when other users have the role "Administrator" assigned to them.
- Disable user to login via WebUI / Limit access to WebUI to certain IP address per user.
- Discourage websites to be created under "admin" account and redirect users to create new users.
- Added support for redirecting to www / non www domains (or custom) #427 / #1638.
- Allow users to see failed login attempts on there account.
- Introduced support for ARM based systems. Currently the packages are not available via APT!
- Force reboot of system after install

### Bugfixes

- Fixed an issue where user name was duplicated when editing FTP users. (#1411)
- Fixed an issue where the iptables service would appear to be in a stopped state when fail2ban is stopped. (#1374)
- Fixed an issue where the default language value was incorrectly set under Server Settings > Configure.
- Fixed an issue with the dark theme where available updates were incorrectly displayed.
- Fixed an issue where local and FTP backup files were not deleted when running v-delete-user-backup. (#1421)
- Fixed an issue where IP addresses could not be deleted. (#1423)
- Fixed an issue where v-rebuild-user would incorrectly rebuild domain items in addition to user account configuration.
- Fixed an issue which caused a web domain's custom document root value to be lost when restoring from backup.
- Fixed an issue which caused a NSPOSIXErrorDomain:100 error when using Safari/iOS (thanks @stsimb).
- Fixed an issue where exim ignored the configured mail quota limit.
- Fixed an issue where invalid character validation was performed when editing mail auto replies.
- Fixed an issue which caused Let's Encrypt to fail when using the Moodle template (thanks @ArturoBlanco).
- Fixed an issue where the MySQL wait_timeout value was not saved due to wrong regexp attribute (thanks @guicapanema).
- Fixed an issue where nginx web statistics authorization file was placed in the wrong directory.
- Fixed several small issues that were reported when using PostgreSQL.
- Improved reliability of mail domains and webmail clients.
- Improved reliability of service restarts during upgrades.
- Improved compatibility with Blesta / WHMCS plugins.
- Improved API error handling routines - thanks @danielalexis!
- Improved backup performance through the use of multi-threading when creating archives using the zstd compression type.
- Improved error handling when creating firewall rules.
- Improved handling of suspended users and domains to allow deletion without unsuspension.
- Improved dependencies over package control to install lsb-release and zstd.
- Improved SFTP connection handling to be case insensitive (thanks @lazzurs).
- Improved domain validation to prevent creating subdomains when the top-level domain belongs to another account (thanks @KuJoe and @sickcodes).
- Improved IDN domain handling to resolve issues with Let's Encrypt SSL and mail domain services.
- Added private folder to openbasedir permissions for all main templates.
- Disabled changing backup folder via Web UI because it used symbolic link instead of mount causing issues with restore mail / user files.
- Fixed XSS vulnerability in v-add-sys-ip and user history log (thanks @numanturle).
- Fixed remote code execution vulnerability which could occur when deleting SSH keys (thanks @numanturle).
- Fixed vulnerability in v-update-sys-hestia (thanks @numanturle)
- Disabled the Update via WebUI due to timeout issues. Please update via apt update && apt upgrade in command line instead.
- Improve how Quick install of web apps are handled and allow users added apps to be maintained in list view.
- Fixed an issue where the api was enabled after an update of HestiaCP
- Fixed an issue when the default php version got deleted webmail didn't work any more. #1477
- Limit access when "demo" mode is enabled.
- Fixed an issue where limitations on aliases didn't work propperly
- Fixed an issue where "Exit to control pannel" link got changed to "Logout" #1669
- Allow packages to be deleted when in use. Current users are changed to "Default" package.
- Fixed multiple bugs with in v-restore-users
- Redesign statics page
- Allow self signed certificates to be created with aliases.
- Fixed issue where mail accounts where sorting incorrectly by size #1687
- Improve results v-search-command #1703
- Merge Codeiginiter / Drupal templates.
- Prepare template for FastCGI support an improve security by allowing only .well-known for Let's encrypt requests
- Update Cloudflare Ips in nginx.conf
- Fixed an issue where emails where send to nobody when connection failed to database #1765
- Fixed an issue where no notifications where send on failure and save local backup if remote backup failed.
- Fixed an issue where domains containing 2 dots in the top level domain could accidentally got removed #1763
- Fixed an issue where www could be created and after delete webmail doesn't work anymore #1746
- Standardize headers for upgrade scripts
- Improved how we handle custom themes
- Refactored HTML / PHP code WebUI
- Updated ClamAV configuration
- Fixed issue where file manger key got the wrong permissions
- Update version Laveral @mariojgt
